---
title: Prevent Overflow
---

# Prevent Overflow

The preventOverflow modifier can move the popper when the `detectOverflow`
modifier reported it's overflowing in any direction.

## Options

```flow
type Options = {
  /* Prevents boundaries overflow on the main axis */
  mainAxis: boolean,
  /* Prevents boundaries overflow on the alternate axis */
  altAxis: boolean,
  /* Sets a padding to the provided boundary */
  padding: Padding,
  /* Allows the popper to overflow from its boundaries to keep it near its reference element */
  tether: boolean,
  /* Offsets when the `tether` option should activate */
  tetherOffset: TetherOffset,
};

/**
 * Below are described the relative types
 */
type Padding =
  | {|
      top?: number,
      left?: number,
      right?: number,
      bottom?: number,
    |}
  | number;

type TetherOffset =
  | (({
      popper: Rect,
      reference: Rect,
      placement: Placement,
    }) => number)
  | number;
```

### Options#mainAxis

By default, only the main axis is checked, that means if a popper with `bottom`
placement is overflowing on the right of its boundary element, it will be moved
on the left so that it stays within its boundaries. This behavior can be
disabled by setting `options.mainAxis` to `false`.

```js
createPopper(reference, popper, {
  modifiers: [
    {
      name: 'preventOverflow',
      options: {
        mainAxis: false, // true by default
      },
    },
  ],
});
```

### Options#altAxis

Optionally, the alternative axis check can be enabled, by setting
`options.altAxis` to `true`. This will make the modifier check also the other
axis, but keep in mind that this may lead the popper to overlap its reference
element.

```js
createPopper(reference, popper, {
  modifiers: [
    {
      name: 'preventOverflow',
      options: {
        altAxis: true, // false by default
      },
    },
  ],
});
```

### Options#tether

While trying to keep the popper element within its boundaries is usually a
welcome behavior, we don't usually want to reach the point where the reference
and popper elements are not touching each other at all, since that would make it
difficult for the user to understand where a popper originated from.

The default behavior to avoid this situation, is to stop to try to keep the
popper within its defined boundaries once the center of the popper reaches the
edge of its reference element.

This behavior can be disabled by setting the `tether` option to `false`:

```js
createPopper(reference, popper, {
  modifiers: [
    {
      name: 'preventOverflow',
      options: {
        tether: false, // true by default
      },
    },
  ],
});
```

The `surfaces` behavior, instead, will kick in once the opposite edges are
level.

To conclude, the tether option can be disabled all together by setting it to
`false`, so that the popper will detach from its reference element if required
to keep it within its defined boundaries.

### Options#tetherOffset

When `tether` is enabled, you can customize its behavior by providing an offset
to be used during the `tether` calculations. Setting the offset to a positive
number will make the tether behavior kick in earlier, while setting it negative
will do the opposite.

The `tetherOffset` option can also take a function, this will enable you to read
some useful data, such as the popper and reference measures, or the current
popper placement:

```js
createPopper(reference, popper, {
  modifiers: [
    {
      name: 'preventOverflow',
      options: {
        tetherOffset: ({ popper, reference, placement }) => popper.width / 2,
      },
    },
  ],
});
```

### Options#padding

You can apply some additional padding to the boundaries defined by the
`detectOverflow` modifier by setting this option to a number, to apply the
padding evenly to all the four sides, or to an object containing the `top`,
`left`, `bottom`, `right` properties, with a padding number for each side.

```js
createPopper(reference, popper, {
  modifiers: [
    {
      name: 'preventOverflow',
      options: {
        padding: { top: 20, right: 10 },
      },
    },
  ],
});
```
